README.md, before:

ingress-monitor-controller
==========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller?style=flat)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)

A Kubernetes controller for automatically configuring website monitors for
ingresses. Currently the following providers are supported:

- [Site24x7](https://www.site24x7.com)
- Null provider (only useful for testing and debugging)

Building the Controller
-----------------------

Clone the repository and build a docker image by running:

```sh
make docker-build
```

This will build and tag the image as `ingress-monitor-controller:latest`. If
you want to use a different image name and tag, override the `IMAGE` and `TAG`
environment variables:

```sh
make docker-build IMAGE=my.registry/ingress-monitor-controller TAG="$(git rev-parse HEAD)"
```

Deploying the Controller
------------------------

You can find example manifests for deploying the controller in the
[`deploy/`](deploy/) directory. Be sure to customize them to your needs before
applying them to your cluster:

```sh
kubectl apply -f deploy/
```

Configuration
-------------

### CLI Flags

The following CLI flags are available:

| Flag                | Description                                                                           | Default                           |
| ------              | -------------                                                                         | ---------                         |
| `--provider`        | The provider to use for creating monitors.                                            | `site24x7`                        |
| `--provider-config` | Location of the config file for the monitor providers.                                | `""`                              |
| `--name-template`   | The template to use for the monitor name. Valid fields are: .IngressName, .Namespace. | `{{.Namespace}}-{{.IngressName}}` |
| `--namespace`       | Namespace to watch. If empty, all namespaces are watched.                             | `""`                              |
| `--resync-interval` | Duration after which to recheck all ingresses. `0` disables resync.                   | `1h`                              |
| `--creation-delay`  | Duration to wait after an ingress is created before creating the monitor for it.      | `0s`                              |
| `--no-delete`       | If set, monitors will not be deleted if the ingress is deleted.                       | `false`                           |

Additionally, the controller also exposes all flags supported by
[klog](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog) to configure the logger.

### Provider Configuration File

The config file has the following YAML format:

```yaml
name-of-the-provider:
  [...provider specific config like authentication...]
  monitorDefaults:
    [...provider specific default values for monitors if not overridden explicitly...]
```

Refer to [`pkg/config/providers.go`](pkg/config/providers.go) for all available
config keys and their documentation. For a usage example of the config file
check out the ConfigMap and Deployment manifests in the [`deploy/`](deploy/)
directory.

Example configuration for the Site24x7 provider:

```yaml
site24x7:
  clientID: the-oauth-client-id
  clientSecret: the-oauth-client-secret
  refreshToken: the-oauth-refresh-token
  monitorDefaults:
    Actions:
      - alert_type: 0
        action_id: "123"
    AuthPass: ""
    AuthUser: ""
    AutoLocationProfile: true
    AutoMonitorGroup: true
    AutoNotificationProfile: true
    AutoThresholdProfile: true
    AutoUserGroup: true
    CheckFrequency: "1"
    CustomHeaders:
      - name: X-Monitor-Created-By
        value: ingress-monitor-controller
    HTTPMethod: G
    LocationProfileID: "123"
    MatchCase: true
    MonitorGroupIDs:
      - "123"
    NotificationProfileID: "456"
    ThresholdProfileID: "678"
    Timeout: 10
    UseNameServer: true
    UserAgent: "curl/v1.33.7"
    UserGroupIDs:
      - "456"
```

### Ingress Annotations

To automatically create a website monitor for an ingress, it requires to be annotated with the `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled` annotation:

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled: "true"
  name: my-ingress
  namespace: my-namespace
```

### Global Ingress Annotations

Global ingress annotations configure behaviour that is not specific to a
certain provider. The following annotations are supported:

| Annotation                                 | Description                                                                                | Default   |
| ------------                               | -------------                                                                              | --------- |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled`       | Controls whether a monitor should be created for the ingress or not                        | `false`   |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/force-https`   | Forces the monitored URL to be HTTPS even if TLS is not configured for the ingress         | `false`   |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/path-override` | By default, `/` is monitored. This can be overridden with this annotation (e.g. `/health`) | `/`       |

### Supported Third Party Annotations

The controller will honor the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/force-ssl-redirect`
annotation and force website monitors to be created for HTTPS if this
annotation is set to `true`.

### Provider Specific Annotations

You can control the configuration of a website monitor via provider specific
annotations. For a full list of supported annotations check out the constants
and their documentation in
[`pkg/config/annotations.go`](pkg/config/annotations.go).

### Admission Webhook

The `ingress-monitor-controller` also provides an admission webhook which
automatically adds the monitor provider's source IP ranges to the
`nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` annotation of an ingress
if the following rules apply:

- If the `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled` annotation is `false` or not
  present, do nothing.
- If the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` is not present
  or empty, do nothing.
- If there are no source ranges for the used monitor provider, do nothing.
- If the provider source ranges are not already present in the
  `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` annotation, add them
  automatically.

To make use of the admission webhook you have to start the controller with the
`--enable-admission` flag to start the HTTP server for the webhook. This will
also require to provide valid TLS certificate and private key via the the
`--tls-cert-file` and `--tls-private-key-file` flags. The listen address of the
admission controller can be configured via `--listen-addr` and defaults to
`0.0.0.0:443`.

You also need to create a `Service` and a `MutatingWebhookConfiguration`
similar to this:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: ingress-monitor-controller
spec:
  ports:
    - name: https
      port: 443
      targetPort: 443
  selector:
    app: ingress-monitor-controller

---
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: MutatingWebhookConfiguration
metadata:
  name: ingress-monitor-controller
webhooks:
  - name: ingress-monitor-controller.bonial.com
    clientConfig:
      service:
        name: ingress-monitor-controller
        namespace: kube-system
        path: /admit
      caBundle: [...the CA bundle...]
    failurePolicy: Ignore
    sideEffects: None
    rules:
      - operations:
          - CREATE
          - UPDATE
        apiGroups:
          - extensions
        apiVersions:
          - '*'
        resources:
          - ingresses
```

Commit message:

switch to controller-runtime (#7)
This replaces hand-crafted logic which equivalents from the kubernetes
controller-runtime to increase maintainability. The core logic was left
unchanged.

Changes to CLI flags:
- `--tls-cert-file` and `--tls-private-key-file` have been replaced by
  `--tls-cert-dir`.
- `--listen-addr` has been removed. The admission controller will listen
  on `:443` by default.
- `--resync-interval` was removed.

README.md, after:

ingress-monitor-controller
==========================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller?style=flat)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/Bonial-International-GmbH/ingress-monitor-controller)

A Kubernetes controller for automatically configuring website monitors for
ingresses. Currently the following providers are supported:

- [Site24x7](https://www.site24x7.com)
- Null provider (only useful for testing and debugging)

Building the Controller
-----------------------

Clone the repository and build a docker image by running:

```sh
make docker-build
```

This will build and tag the image as `ingress-monitor-controller:latest`. If
you want to use a different image name and tag, override the `IMAGE` and `TAG`
environment variables:

```sh
make docker-build IMAGE=my.registry/ingress-monitor-controller TAG="$(git rev-parse HEAD)"
```

Deploying the Controller
------------------------

You can find example manifests for deploying the controller in the
[`deploy/`](deploy/) directory. Be sure to customize them to your needs before
applying them to your cluster:

```sh
kubectl apply -f deploy/
```

Configuration
-------------

### CLI Flags

The following CLI flags are available:

| Flag                | Description                                                                           | Default                           |
| ------              | -------------                                                                         | ---------                         |
| `--provider`        | The provider to use for creating monitors.                                            | `site24x7`                        |
| `--provider-config` | Location of the config file for the monitor providers.                                | `""`                              |
| `--name-template`   | The template to use for the monitor name. Valid fields are: .IngressName, .Namespace. | `{{.Namespace}}-{{.IngressName}}` |
| `--namespace`       | Namespace to watch. If empty, all namespaces are watched.                             | `""`                              |
| `--creation-delay`  | Duration to wait after an ingress is created before creating the monitor for it.      | `0s`                              |
| `--no-delete`       | If set, monitors will not be deleted if the ingress is deleted.                       | `false`                           |

Additionally, the controller also exposes all flags supported by
[klog](https://github.com/kubernetes/klog) to configure the logger.

### Provider Configuration File

The config file has the following YAML format:

```yaml
name-of-the-provider:
  [...provider specific config like authentication...]
  monitorDefaults:
    [...provider specific default values for monitors if not overridden explicitly...]
```

Refer to [`pkg/config/providers.go`](pkg/config/providers.go) for all available
config keys and their documentation. For a usage example of the config file
check out the ConfigMap and Deployment manifests in the [`deploy/`](deploy/)
directory.

Example configuration for the Site24x7 provider:

```yaml
site24x7:
  clientID: the-oauth-client-id
  clientSecret: the-oauth-client-secret
  refreshToken: the-oauth-refresh-token
  monitorDefaults:
    Actions:
      - alert_type: 0
        action_id: "123"
    AuthPass: ""
    AuthUser: ""
    AutoLocationProfile: true
    AutoMonitorGroup: true
    AutoNotificationProfile: true
    AutoThresholdProfile: true
    AutoUserGroup: true
    CheckFrequency: "1"
    CustomHeaders:
      - name: X-Monitor-Created-By
        value: ingress-monitor-controller
    HTTPMethod: G
    LocationProfileID: "123"
    MatchCase: true
    MonitorGroupIDs:
      - "123"
    NotificationProfileID: "456"
    ThresholdProfileID: "678"
    Timeout: 10
    UseNameServer: true
    UserAgent: "curl/v1.33.7"
    UserGroupIDs:
      - "456"
```

### Ingress Annotations

To automatically create a website monitor for an ingress, it requires to be annotated with the `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled` annotation:

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled: "true"
  name: my-ingress
  namespace: my-namespace
```

### Global Ingress Annotations

Global ingress annotations configure behaviour that is not specific to a
certain provider. The following annotations are supported:

| Annotation                                 | Description                                                                                | Default   |
| ------------                               | -------------                                                                              | --------- |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled`       | Controls whether a monitor should be created for the ingress or not                        | `false`   |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/force-https`   | Forces the monitored URL to be HTTPS even if TLS is not configured for the ingress         | `false`   |
| `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/path-override` | By default, `/` is monitored. This can be overridden with this annotation (e.g. `/health`) | `/`       |

### Supported Third Party Annotations

The controller will honor the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/force-ssl-redirect`
annotation and force website monitors to be created for HTTPS if this
annotation is set to `true`.

### Provider Specific Annotations

You can control the configuration of a website monitor via provider specific
annotations. For a full list of supported annotations check out the constants
and their documentation in
[`pkg/config/annotations.go`](pkg/config/annotations.go).

### Admission Webhook

The `ingress-monitor-controller` also provides an admission webhook which
automatically adds the monitor provider's source IP ranges to the
`nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` annotation of an ingress
if the following rules apply:

- If the `ingress-monitor.bonial.com/enabled` annotation is `false` or not
  present, do nothing.
- If the `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` is not present
  or empty, do nothing.
- If there are no source ranges for the used monitor provider, do nothing.
- If the provider source ranges are not already present in the
  `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/whitelist-source-range` annotation, add them
  automatically.

To make use of the admission webhook you have to start the controller with the
`--enable-admission` flag to start the HTTP server (listening on `:443`) for
the webhook (at `/admit`). This will also require to provide valid TLS
certificate and private key via the the `--tls-cert-dir` flag. The directory is
expected to contain the files `tls.key` and `tls.crt`.

You also need to create a `Service` and a `MutatingWebhookConfiguration`
similar to this:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: ingress-monitor-controller
spec:
  ports:
    - name: https
      port: 443
      targetPort: 443
  selector:
    app: ingress-monitor-controller

---
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: MutatingWebhookConfiguration
metadata:
  name: ingress-monitor-controller
webhooks:
  - name: ingress-monitor-controller.bonial.com
    clientConfig:
      service:
        name: ingress-monitor-controller
        namespace: kube-system
        path: /admit
      caBundle: [...the CA bundle...]
    failurePolicy: Ignore
    sideEffects: None
    rules:
      - operations:
          - CREATE
          - UPDATE
        apiGroups:
          - extensions
        apiVersions:
          - '*'
        resources:
          - ingresses
```
